# The-College-Project
The College Project is a book in the making that will be comprised of personal accounts of discrimination on college campuses across the country.  The website introduces this project, gives background on prominent forms of discrimination on college campuses, provides a list of organizations to donate to, and allows you to contribute your own story to the project.

To run The College Project website, make sure you have all of the required files downloaded from the project.zip file, and then our project can be run using the "flask run" command in the terminal. You will then get a link to our website. Once you click on the link, you will be directed to the homepage. On this page, you will see in its body a hero image with some introduction text overtop, along with a "Share Your Story" button that once clicked will send you to the Share Your Story page (which we will elaborate on later). Below that will be a quote from one of The College Project’s co-founders, and below that a form where you can subscribe to the Project's email list. If you put in a valid email, you will receive a note that you have successfully subscribed! If a non-valid email is submitted, you will receive a note asking you to try again. Below this form is a Contact Us feature that also happens to be at the bottom of every page of our website. If you click the "Email" button, a new email draft will open in a separate window using your email server, with the Subject: and To: lines pre-filled for you. All you have to do is type out the body and press send. If you press the "Call" button, the website will dial the organization's phone number for you. *Both the email and phone number used are Demi’s for now as the organization has not set theirs up yet.

Users can use the navigation bar to navigate to different pages on the website. If you click on the learn more tab, you will be taken to a page with basic information on racial injustice, sex-based discrimination, and sexual assualt. Within each subgroup, there will be a link taking you to another page with more information. On the racial discrimination page, there is a carousel of pictures beneath the text with images and graphs about racial injustice specific to college students and campuses. Users can move between images using the arrow keys to carousel forward and backward through the photos. On the sex-based discrimination and sexual assault pages, users can just read more information on these issues.

Users then can click the donate tab to go to the donation page. On the donate page, you will see a google map with markers representing different organizations that one can donate to aligning with the College Projects objectives. The markers are customized by organization type as seen in the legend. On the map, users are able to click on map markers to see the name of the organizations. Users can then click on the organization name that pops up to visit the organizations website. To close the popup, users should press the x in the top right corner. Below the map, users can see a detailed list and summary of all the organizations on the map. The organizations are again separated by type and include information about the purpose of the organization, how to contact them, their address, and a link to their website/donation page. 

Users then can click the Share Your Story tab in the nav bar to go to the Share Your Story page, you will see a paragraph of instructions on how to submit your story. The * includes required fields, such as Email, for Identification, the Type of Discrimination for sorting purposes, and the story itself. The user is absolutely allowed to be anonymous, yet we just need the email in the case that we need to contact them. If one or more of the required fields are left blank, then it will redirect the user to a page that states an error message and conveniently highlights a link to return to the Share your Story page. Then, once the user has submitted the story, it automatically submits it to the database, and it updates the View Stories page to include the story that was just submitted.

Finally, users can click on the View Stories tab in the nav bar to go to the View Stories page. You immediately see a Drop Down tab "Select One" which allows the user to select the specific category of stories that they wish to view. After Selecting, it will lead them to a page with all the stories listed along with a search bar asking if they want to search keywords in the specific stories within their chosen category. You can view each listed story as they first list Name, School, and then the story itself. In the search bar, you can search for any keywords within each of the entries. If there is a match or multiple matches, then the corresponding stories will all show up and it will be narrowed down to them. If there is not a match, aka if there are no stories that contain the keyword that was searched, the page returns blank. You can either click the View Stories tab again, or just enter nothing and click the "Go" submit button on the search bar to go back to the original page with all the stories listed. 

Lastly, users are able to return to the homepage by clicking either the home tab or The College Project title in the navigation bar.

Link to Project Video: https://youtu.be/6BBVK_41E1Y 
