In layout.html, we first created a navigation bar that allows users to navigate between pages on our website. We made this design choice both for the aesthetic appearance of our website and to increase its useability. To implement the navigation bar, we read the documentation for it on W3Schools and created the code based on the information on there. We made the navbar so there was the larger title section of the left of the navbar that says "The College Project", which links to the homepage. The right side of the navigation bar has five tabs leading to five of the website's different pages. We styled them, so that each tab highlights when you hover over it. Also incorporated into layout.html is a Contact Us feature at the bottom of each page. This feature includes two buttons, Call and Email. We used javascript to write a function that opens up a new email draft when the Email button is clicked. For the Call button, we did not use a function in javascript, instead we used html script onclick="window.location.href='tel:954-849-9072'"  in the button tag for simplicity. We also used jinja to extend layout.html to all of the other html pages. 

In index.html, we used a hero image to introduce users to the website. To implement the hero image, we used the documentation provided on W3Schools. From there, we made a flexbox to contain the image, and then we sized and positioned the image and text within that. We also implemented a button using javascript within the hero section that links to the share your story page. At the bottom of index.html is a form where the user can subscribe to The College Project email list. The first text box is where they input their name, and the second is where they input their email. When the user clicks the Subscribe button, it triggers the POST method in index(), their email and name are inserted into a row in the email_list table in collegeproject.db. Their email is necessary in order to add them to an email list, so we made the email column in email_list NOT NULL.

We made the design choice to store this information in a SQL database because it is easy to query specific information from the database on different pages throughout the website using flask. One problem that could come up is if the user inputs an invalid email, or even no email at all (which violates the NOT NULL parameter). To validate their email input, we found a check() function online (and cited it!) that confirms the validity of an email address. We wrote check() in a separate file helpers.py and linked it to application.py, just to make our code more organized and easier to read/follow.

To implement the Learn More page, we created a function learn() in application.py that uses the GET method to render learn.html. On learn.html, we used flexboxes to organize and style the page. We broke the page up into three rows of information for race, gender/sexual orientation, and sexual assault. Then within each of the rows, we split the row into two columns for the text and the media. Each section on the Learn More page, links to another page with more information. For each of these links, we created functions using flask that render three different html pages (racialdiscrimination.html, sexualorientation.html, and sexualassault.html).  The separate Learn More pages are most likely the most straight-forward implementation of the website, as their sole function is to have text and images. On racialdiscrimination.html, we implemented a carousel of related images and graphs beneath the text. We adapted the code for the carousel from Bootstrap's documentation to make it with slides, controls, and indicators. We ran into some difficulties in trying to change some of the styling of the Bootstrap carousel, but eventually we were able to change just the size and margins of it on the page. Overall, we had to do quite a bit of research (3-4 hours) for the actual contents of the learn more pages. These pages include extensive information about each of the three categories of discrimination or assault, and further steps that can be taken. The Learn More page ideally should encourage the readers to click on the Donate tab and take actionable steps, and we believe that the content transitions in such a way. 


To implement the donation page, we created a function donate() that uses GET to render donate.html. On donate.html, we implemented a google map along with an organized list of organizations with links to contact them and donate to their causes. For the google map, we had to use a google map API. We spent a lot of time reading the documentation and figuring out how to obtain the API key and set up the credentials. Once we obtained the API key, we read the google maps documentation to initialize the map. We set up the map to be centered around a default location, which is the city of Boston. We then created customized markers to indicate the three different types of organizations: Racial Injustice, Sex-based Discrimination, and Sexual Assault. After creating the markers for the different organization types, we had to create their pinpoint locations using an array of dictionaries. Each input into the array had the position, organization type, and a popup message that gave the name of the organization and linked the user to the organization's website. We then looped through the array of pinpointed locations to plot the markers on the map. Each marker was plotted with their associated icons, their associated messages, and at their correct latitude and longitude coordinates. The popup message with information on the organizations was attached to each marker through this loop through the pinpoint array by using a function we created that listens for clicks on the map icons and pops up the message on click. Lastly, we implemented a legend in the top right corner to show users what kind of organization each custom marker on the map signifies. Through the whole process of implementing the google map, we tried to adapt and customize their sample code using the documentation to create our own customized map for our needs. We customized the markers from images we found on the internet, implemented popup messages with the name of the organization hyperlinked to its websites, and we customized our legend to contain our designed markers and information.

Additionally, a lot of work went into styling and researching information for the donation page. Within the layout template, our main block of body code goes into the container p-5, which sets certain margins for the page. For the formatting of the map page, we wanted to break out of that container so the map could take up a more widespread position on the page. We had to work to style the content to break out of this container. Then we had to stylize the map and legend to be visually appealing and work with different window sizes. Also, we then had to research and type all of the information on each of the organizations into the html page. This included placing the custom marker images next to the headings of each organization type and linking to modes of communication with organizations (emails) and company donation pages/websites. 


To implement the Share Your Story page, we wrote a share() function using flask that has two methods, GET and POST. If the method is GET, then share.html is rendered, showing a blank form that needs to be filled out by the user. If the method is POST, then whatever the user has typed into the text boxes will be inserted into the stories table in collegeproject.db. We decided to make only the email, type of discrimination, and story fields required, so if any of these is not filled out correctly, then notshared.html is rendered, depicting and error message and a link to go back to Share Your Story to try again. We used the same check function in helpers.py to validate the email provided here as we used to validate the email on the Home page. If the required fields are filled out correctly, then the information is added to the database and shared.html is rendered, depicting a success message. One thing we had to think about was how to go about alerting the user that they did not successfully fill out the required fields correctly, one of our options being to use javascript. We spent a lot of time working on the ways to go about this, but we came to the final conclusion that the shared.html and notshared.html pages were the best solution for our specific website.

To implement the View Stories page, we created several functions using flask. The first is view(), that using the GET method renders view.html and using POST method redirects to one of three other functions, depending on what the user selected in the dropdown menu.
These three functions are viewracial(), vieworientation(), and viewassault(). We also factored in the case where the user hadn't selected anything from the dropdown menu, and in that case the page will just refresh. Because these three functions are all structured the same, we will just explain one (viewracial). Viewracial uses both POST and GET, where GET renders viewracial.html. Viewracial.html displays a text box where the user can type in keyword(s) that correspond to the specific stories they want to view. When the user types in keyword(s) and clicks submit (POST method), all of the stories in the database that include those keywords in either the story text or college corresponding to it will be displayed on the page.

One problem we came across was how to account for the fact that the user might type in several keywords at one time. To solve this problem, we used the split() function in python to split the user's input by spaces, creating a list of separate keywords that is easier to work with.
We used the LIKE parameter in sql to query all of the stories that include the keyword, and then we used jinja to display all of these queried stories, along with the name and college of the person who wrote each story. Jinja is how we were able to make these pages so dynamic.


As for the general styling of the pages, we incorporated a salmon-orange based color scheme that we believe appropriately fit the theme. We had numerous ideas for the outline of the website, and we had to change the color scheme many times in order for it to look aesthetically pleasing. We ended up with a background-color of #f4e1d2 as a very neutral peach-like color to enable text contrast. This, along with the salmon #f18973- creates a warm and welcoming but not too cheery environment. This contrasts well with our blurred hero image in our Home page, which is a contrasting mix of blue and yellow weak colors. We centered each object in order to make it more aesthetically pleasing, and the hover color for buttons alternates between #f18973 and the darker #bc5a45. 
